WASHINGTON — As the House neared approval Friday of the largest round of spending cuts in recent history, the floor debate turned to an amendment proposed by Representative Denny Rehberg, Republican of Montana, to prohibit the use of any federal dollars to implement the Democrats’ big new health care law.

But for House Republicans flush with enthusiasm after three days and nights of free-wheeling floor debate over their plans to slash spending, there is a potentially sobering lesson about American democracy to be learned from the passage last year of that health care law they hate so much: after countless hours of drafting and floor debate, the bill that President Obama signed in March was the version written and approved by the Senate.

In much the same way, the spending measure being debated so feverishly on the House floor has no real chance of being enacted into law, no matter how big a victory celebration Republicans plan to hold after the vote expected later on Friday or perhaps Saturday.

Just as the Senate, with its arcane filibuster rules and more delicate balance of power between Democrats and Republicans, ultimately controlled the health care debate, so too will it exert powerful control in the crucial negotiations yet to come in the current spending fight — a high-stakes battle that leaders of both parties have said could lead to a government shutdown next month.

For all the bravado of House Republican freshmen about forcing their own party’s leaders to vastly increase the scale of proposed spending cuts, and for all the boasting by the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio, over the open debate that has allowed more than 600 amendments to be brought forward, the House does not get the final say.

Without even seeing the House bill in its final form, the White House has threatened to veto it. Senate Democrats have made clear that they are not willing to go along with all of the Republican cuts, and that if Republicans refuse to negotiate it could lead to a government shutdown.

The stop-gap measure now financing the government expires on March 4.

“Democrats firmly believe that a government shutdown is not in the best interests of our country,” the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said in a statement. “It could send our economy back into a recession, and mean no Social Security checks for seniors, no funding for border security and no paychecks for our troops.”

For practical reasons alone, Congress will almost certainly need to approve a temporary extension of the current stop-gap measure. Both the House and Senate are scheduled to be in recess next week.

While House Republicans have the votes to approve their spending bill, it is their counterparts in the Senate, led by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, who will have to decide if they are willing to allow Democrats to approve an extension of the stop-gap measure that would maintain spending generally at 2010 levels, or would block such a bill and risk being accused of bringing the government to a standstill.

Mr. Boehner on Thursday said that he would oppose such a temporary extension without further cuts, sharply raising the stakes in the war of wills with Democrats. The bill that House Republicans are close to approving would run for the balance of the fiscal year, through Sept. 30, and includes the largest cuts in modern history — a swift, huge slash of more than $60 billion from domestic programs, foreign aid and even some military projects that they say would fulfill their campaign promise to shrink government outlays.

Democrats say such drastic cuts would harm the fragile economic recovery.

“When we say we’re going to cut spending,” Mr. Boehner said at a news conference on Thursday, “Read my lips: we’re going to cut spending.”

Mr. Boehner accused Democrats of seeking to shut the government to avoid making cuts.

But while it will be up to Mr. Boehner to propose a short-term extension of the stop-gap measure, and he will include at least some additional cuts, Senate Democrats could send it back to the House. If they do so, Senate Republicans would have to make a choice of blocking the bill with a filibuster or allowing it to pass and leaving their counterparts in the House to decide on shutting the government.

Republicans were blamed for such a shutdown in 1995 during a standoff with the Clinton administration.