You have to enjoy dying to play Hard Corps. Uprising, the 2D run-and-gun game that is available  on Xbox Live now for 1,200 points ($15). You must have a very high tolerance for frustration, and the ability to smile a very grim smile after the game throws you a middle finger and kills you just to prove you should have been paying more attention. This may be a modern take on the Contra formula—the game fits into the Contra: Hard Corps. story—but the game is classical in how much joy it takes in crushing your ego.

There is an Arcade mode, but that's only for people who deeply hate themselves. You have limited lives, each level features multiple bosses, and the checkpoints are few and far between. The beautifully drawn and animated world helps, but only the most dedicated gamers will see the end of the game in this mode, even while playing with a friend on- or offline. The real fun comes from the Uprising mode.

The Uprising mode converts every enemy you kill and every bonus you receive into points, which are used to buy power-ups for your character that change the play in a number of ways. More powerful weapons, more lives and continues, more abilities—by playing the game and learning the levels you'll become more powerful over time, and the compulsion to see just how high you can score will keep you playing for a very long time. It's easier to take getting killed over and over when it gains you the points needed to buy that one new thing you've had your eye on for the past hour.

If you're saying to yourself that this sounds horrible, please do not take my final verdict to heart. Stay away. But if you feel challenged, and if you're in the mood for some punishing, old-school gameplay with wonderfully modern graphics, you're going to have a good time. You'll see nods to previous Contra titles, you'll explore a variety of locations and environments, and you'll likely throw your controller once or twice. The game is never cheap, not really, but it certainly has a few points where it goes out of its way to "get" you, and those moments can be infuriating.

Hard Corps. Uprising is a game that's easy to hate, but it's just as easy to fall in love with. This has been my job in the past few evenings, and no, I haven't beaten it. I have gotten my $15 worth out of the game, however, and I'm far from done. If you invite a friend over to play with you, make sure you give him or her the controller you wouldn't mind being thrown against a wall.

At the very least, make sure you play through the demo just to enjoy the game's feel and graphics. This title is a very pleasant surprise, even though I haven't cursed this much in a long time.