MADRID  The Spanish government bowed to pressure from ailing savings banks, known as cajas, on Friday by granting them an additional six months to list their equity.

The government approved by decree new rules that will force all financial institutions to meet a stricter core capital requirement of 8 percent, a level that will be raised to 10 percent for cajas that neither list on the stock market nor manage to sell 20 percent of their equity to private investors.

However, banks that have not raised sufficient additional capital by September  the deadline initially proposed by Finance Minister Elena Salgado  will be given until the end of March 2012 to comply, under the proviso that they can demonstrate to the central bank that equity-raising plans are under way.

Ms. Salgado said at a news conference on Friday that stricter capital rules were required because there is still mistrust among investors about the solvency of the financial entities.

Before the decision Friday, Ms. Salgado had been under intense lobbying from cajas demanding more time.

The government also approved a slightly broader definition than initially debated of what banks could include in their core capital, which is a measure of a banks health. For instance, the decree allows banks to count as core capital any bonds that are due to be converted into shares by 2014.

Finally, the state restructuring fund, known as the FROB, would only acquire equity in a failed commercial bank  but not in an insolvent caja  in return for emergency funding, in effect reducing the possibility of a sudden and large-scale nationalization of Spains banking sector.

Weighed down by bad property loans, the savings banks still must convince private investors to help improve their balance sheets. On Friday, the Bank of Spain released figures showing that Spanish financial institutions ended 2010 with 5.81 percent of bad loans on average in their portfolios  the highest level in 15 years.

Following a consolidation round that has cut their number to 17 from 45, investment bankers and consultants advising the cajas argue that foreign funds and other institutional investors are ready to put money into the cajas. However, the cajas will be competing against each other for the funding. They also remain particularly vulnerable to any further decline in the real estate market. As a result, most are expected to offer investors a discount compared with the valuations of their commercial peers.

Underlining this valuation conundrum, the countrys largest grouping of savings banks told the stock market regulator on Friday that it would in effect create a separate bad bank for some of its most troubled assets before a planned listing this summer.

The grouping, called Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, is the result of a merger between seven institutions and is led by Caja Madrid. In its statement to the regulator, the grouping said that its intention was to exclude from the company that is floated on the market some specific assets, in order to optimize its attraction for investors and valuation.

Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, which has 328 billion, or $447 billion, of assets, was expected to seek between 2 billion and 4 billion of equity as part of its initial public offering, based on an estimated book value of about 10 billion.

Besides their I.P.O. plans, the cajas are also hoping to raise additional cash by divesting equity holdings that they have accumulated in some of Spains leading industrial companies. On Friday, Bancaja, one of the banks that formed Banco Financiero y de Ahorros, said that it would sell to institutional investors a 5 percent stake in Enags, a gas distributor, worth about 193 million at current stock market prices.